Going back to our code.
Now, if you are following
the instructions in the Readme file,
I'm going to work with default.
It says animated loading.
This is actually not really a requirement,
but
something that is really nice mostly
when we are loading asynchronous data.
Remember every time we are going to
the server that might take time.
Okay, right now, our app is pretty fast,
even if you're using
a cloud based database.
Okay, so it's pretty fast.
But anyway, of course,
that might take time.
I mean, the database might be slow, or
maybe we are in a very slow connection,
so it might take time.
The usual classic pattern was actually
to create a loading spinner or
a loading progress bar, but
that's actually really bad these days.
I mean,
without getting into details on that, but
briefly, when you create a spinner Or
a pro a progress bar,
you're actually setting yourself
a label saying, I'm slow, okay.
That's kind of the idea,
I mean in short words, it's like,
I'm slow so I need to put this.
So instead of doing that the new
pattern that we are using in apps,
it's actually to create Wavy animation,
probably you have seen that.
It's like we set some placeholder for
the content.
The content is not there yet, but
we send some placeholders that are kind
of waving with an animation, okay?
Something like that.
And we can do that pretty easily with
just creating a web component and
some CSS, okay?
Of course the CSS is already there.
You can go and check it.
It's actually a class loading wave.
So if you open in public styles dot CSS,
you can search for loading wave.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And it's actually
it has, it's for any block based elements,
so it has a size and A background,
and also it has an animation.
The animation is using CSS animation,
and this is making actually that way.
It's moving the background.
It's actually using for the background.
It's using a gradient as a background,
and then it's like moving the background.
And because it's moving the background,
it's like, that gradient is moving,
it's being animated.
So it's creates that wave effect without,
without any any external files or SVG.
It's just pure CSS.
So we're going to create that component so
then later we can use it at
some places where we want to set
that while the data is loading.
So for that,
I will create another component.
Right now we have homepage and movie item.
Remember, movie item is each
movie that we are rendering.
So in this case,
I'm going to create animated loading js,
loading js, and
it's going to be a web component.
So that means that we know what do we
need to do when we are creating a web
component, we are creating a class.
Always loading extending
from HTML element.
By the way, you don't need to
always extend from HTML element.
It can also be a subclass of HTML element.
It can be a custom class of your own, or
there are other elements, for example,
audio element or button element.
So you can extend.
One of the HTML elements and
start from there instead of
starting from an empty placeholder.
Okay, but for now, I think that
HTML element will do the trick,
and remember that if you want to use this,
you also need to register it
with the custom elements API.
So we're going to define a tag,
an HTML tag, a new tile,
for example, animated loading, and
then we set our class as the one that's
going to render that particular element.
And in this case, we are going to
implement the connected callback.
Remember, this is a standard
method that we can
override from the super class and
do something here.
Okay, what's my idea for
this particular web component?
So let's move to index html,
just to see how I want to use this.
Okay, so let's see anywhere in our page,
for example, here in the main.
While it's loading,
I want to use my animator loading
element actually with G, like that.
But also, maybe let's say I want
different boxes, I want five boxes.
Instead of just adding five of those.
Maybe we can just have a property,
a custom attribute where
actually I can say how many elements
do I want, like I want five.
To make this,
we can do that with web components.
The only requirement to make
it fully compatible and
fully spec compatible is to
use data dash attributes.
Okay, so our custom attributes should
have a prefix of data dash that.
There are several reasons for that, but
one of the reason is for
future compatibility with.
Build with HTML,
because maybe in the future,
HTML might add an element
attribute in the spec, and
now we are using it for our own purpose,
so we will have a problem.
So if we prefix those attributes
with data, dash, okay,
we know that for sure that won't
be a problem in the future.
And also we may wanna set here,
maybe the width and the height.
We can use also this.
Like, for example, I want this to
be 300 pixels and we can add CSS.
We can change that later.
So, yes, Is the data dash,
is that like a requirement or
is that just a best practice?
So it's something in the middle actually.
So if you don't use data dash,
it will work and you can use it, okay.
You are not following best practices,
but also you are breaking Key the rules.
But anyway, on HTML, you can break
the rules and nothing happens, okay?
So also, the way that we use now
to get the values is different.
If it's a normal attribute,
even if it doesn't exist, or
if it's a data dash attribute, actually
data dash attributes, they have an AP API.
So now, we will use that.
So this is from an HTML point of view.
So from the UI, this is how we
are going to use our web component.
Okay, so
now I will show you what's the difference.
So if I have another one,
let's say a test that is not
data dash with something inside.
Now, we'll show you how to
read that from JavaScript.
Script, but you will see it's
different from data dash attributes.
So if you're coming from React or
Angular, yeah,
that data dash looks like a lot of work or
bureaucracy that we need to add.
But the reason is, first,
future compatibility,
and also there is a Bucha script.
Anil API available for us to work with
data dash attributes or properties.
So from the web component,
so from here, for example,
I might.So let's talk about
the constructor for a second.
If you override the constructor,
you must call super.
Per If not, it's not going to work.
So remember that.
So it's important to
understand these two moments,
the constructor and
the connected callback.
If I want to read the properties in the
HTML tag, I must use connected callback.
Why?
Because the constructor
is the first thing.
That it's being executed when an object
of that class is being created,
and that moment, the system, the engine
didn't parse yet the attributes.
It's just creating the classic memory,
okay?
So don't use the constructor for
reading properties.
So we can use Connected callbacks.
If we want to get, for example,
the amount of elements that we have or
the width of the high,
we use this.dataset.
Every data-attribute goes to a property
of that object dataset without data dash.
So, for example,
I will have directly, .elements.
This is actually data elements, okay?
So if I want the width,
it's this data set width.
And, of course, the same for height.
You got the idea.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now,
For the test attribute,
I need to actually use a different API.
It's not going to dataset.
We can just say this.test and hold for
the best because that depends
on the browser implementation.
What happens when they have an attribute
that is not really recognized?
Or if you want something that we
work everywhere, you need to call,
get attribute and then read that
attributes value with a key, okay, so
if you don't use data dash,
you need to, like,
go back to that old way to read attribute,
even if they're not official attributes.
Okay so data set is better because it
goes automatically to an object, and
you will get all your properties,
your custom properties there.
This is similar to input properties
in Angular or props in React.
And here I just need to loop through
the elements and I need to create a.
Are as many elements as
you are requesting, and
then I'm going to create divs, and
I'm going to apply the class
to those divs, okay.
So I will say, let's call this wrapper.
I'm going to create the div.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: To set the class
there are many ways you can set
the attribute.
You can change the class name.
There are many ways to do that.
You can set the attribute.
You can change the class name,
or you can use class list.
There is an API where you can add a.
A class or
remove a class to that particular element,
classification to that element.
There are many ways to just apply the same
thing and I'm going to apply loading wave.
That's then CSS is applying
an animation there.
Okay.
Does it make sense then?
I should maybe use my width and height.
So I will change the CSS from Javascript.
You can change the CSS
using the style property.
So I have the width, the height.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: This is Height.
And from here, I can also set, or
I can change that from CSS as well, but
I can change the margin maybe.
And we can maybe change
this to inline block.
I'm not sure if you, does anyone know
the difference between display block and
display inline block?
In CSS?
In block takes the whole width.
Uh-huh, And the other one doesn't.
So a block, yeah, it's taking the whole
available width and the parent,
that doesn't mean it's the whole
width that we have on the screen.
It's inspiring element,
inline makes it not a box, but
something that shares
the space with other elements.
And inline block, it's actually inline,
so it's like letters.
I mean two letters, they are inline,
so they are one after the other.
They're sharing the block.
But applying block means that I
can use block based properties
such as marching padding border that
they're not for inline on the elements.
Okay?
And finally,
I need to add this wrapper to myself.
Remember, we are a component, so
we are adding that wrapper So
this is just a quick exercise, okay,
to quickly see how to create a web
component for real usage that then we
can reuse as many times as we want.
>> Student: I think do you want
the append child inside of the loop?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
you're right.
Thank you.
I need this Pen child inside the loop,
because we are creating
different elements.
Yep.
Thank you.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
now we can try this.
Will it work?
What do you think?
First, let's remember where I'm using it.
I'm using it in the main.
Okay.
Which I don't know if it's
going to work or not.
What happens with what we have here.
If I refresh, I'm not saying this, but
there are a couple of reasons
of why we are not saying this.
Let's go back and
see Who is rendering the home page.
Remember that this is a home page.
At some point someone is actually loading
the home page and actually is here.
Okay, so it's adding this.
It's appending the child home page.
That's something that we will
change in a few minutes.
But it has a homepage there.
If we look at the DOM,
we look at main, okay?
We do have main and
we do have animated loading.
It's there with all the data properties,
but actually has no rendering.
Does anyone know why?
Yeah, they had this problem before.
For the browser to recognize our web
components, we must import the file.
If it's not in the Import tree,
the browser will never know
that I do have a file.
Okay, so I need to import this in.
In this case, it's going to be components,
forward slash, animator, loading, js.
So now if I refresh, something happens,
okay, it's actually saying,
hey, relative references must start with
either forward slash, dot, forward slash.
Slash, which is true, be careful when
you're doing this, because, mostly, if
you're used to some bundlers, JavaScript
bundlers, they solve those issues.
In browser based JavaScript,
you have to start your imports,
the path of the file you're importing,
with a forward slash or with a dot.
So it's mandatory.
Look at that.
Now I have five loading animations.
And of course, we can change properties.
Let's say maybe I want 200, 500.
Of course, you can play with that
until you are happy with that.
You can make them smaller, or
maybe 200 and 400, something like that.
Okay?
It's up to you.
And also, you can use these for
very small lines to simulate text.
Just a to do for later.
Okay, for you, maybe homework for
you to have in mind.
So a warning,
what happens if you change this purpose,
these properties manually,
like from JavaScript, or even from here?
So I'm going to here, and
I'm changing that file and
then now I'm saying I want three.
It is not changing it,
or I wanna change this.
It's not updating the ui.
Okay?
Makes sense.
That is because we have already
rendered our work component,
the lifecycle of the web component is more
complex and actually connector callback.
And actually connected callback
is executed only when you
put that in the DOM, and that's all.
So you need to remove it from the DOM and
put it again to actually
execute that code again.
So there are other methods available in a
web component, and one is being executed.
Some of the attributes are changing.
So in that case, you can re-render or
you can update the UI when that happens.
Okay, maybe in this particular example,
as we are because it's just for animation.
So once you design it, probably you're not
gonna change it, but when you're creating
other web components have in mind that if
attributes are changing dynamically after
the element is injected in the dome,
you need to detect that through a method.
Okay, so now I'm going to delete
that because we will use this
animated loading later, okay.
On different parts of the app,
we may use that Web web component,
so that was just for testing purposes.